My family started studying
with Witnesses in New Jersey.
My parents had been very diligent
in helping us to appreciate
not only Bible principles
but also characters in the Bible
who could be a role model for us.
It helped us to know that Jehovah cared
not only for adult publishers
but also for the children
that were serving him.
When you went out in the ministry,
it became such a common thing
—the police would come and pick you up.
If they couldn’t track down the parents,
they would put the children in jail,
knowing that eventually the parents
would have to come looking for them.
The police would use scare tactics.
They’d say: “There are rats in the cell.
Is that where you want to be?”
—anything to make you fearful,
to intimidate you to tell them
where your parents were.
They’d put us in the jail,
and in order to build our faith,
we would sing.
We didn’t have Kingdom melodies back then,
so we used to make up songs,
and that would keep us focused
on what we were doing there.
After I reached the age of 18,
my parents were agreeable
to my accepting an assignment.
And in those years,
because of the racial issue in the south,
there were so many areas in the south
where they didn’t have Kingdom Halls
that the colored could attend.
So if you were free
and you would accept an assignment,
the Society usually sent you to the south.
My parents were both born in the south,
so they were able to tell us what to expect
to keep the culture shock
from being so great.
I was assigned to pioneer
in Andalusia, Alabama.
Based on all of the matters that pertain
to integration and segregation,
this was a hotbed
for testing those issues.
And so I was concerned
about whether I had the fiber
to work under those circumstances.
The field was wide open.
There were so many in the area
that had no knowledge of Jehovah’s Witnesses
and were very receptive to the message.
That part of our ministry was very rewarding.
We had some very strong
and helpful brothers
that Jehovah was using
to get his people
—no matter what color—
to appreciate Him and his purpose.
When you focused on these things
—the suggestions and the ideas—
the brothers would help you to appreciate
how to deal with the issues.
They taught us, for one thing,
that the whole purpose of the Ku Klux Klan
is to intimidate.
They feel that if they frighten you enough,
you will leave.
Satan has always used
methods to try to intimidate.
But we would make it a practice to stay,
to hold our place.
When we were in street work,
we’d stay right there.
And of course, as they passed,
they had their remarks to make,
but we just stood there.
When I think back on my youth,
there isn’t anything that I was able
to participate in
that I came to regret.
There were always blessings
that went along with it.
If you make yourself available,
Jehovah will use you.
Jehovah is always there as a support.
There isn’t anything
that he directs his organization to do
that doesn’t receive his support.
So if we are challenged with a new assignment
or if we feel inadequate about it,
if we look to Jehovah
—with Jehovah, you can’t fail.